Update EIP 1193 (#2577)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-1193.md

type: Standards Track
category: Interface
created: 2018-06-30
requires: 155, 695, 1102, 1474, 1767
---

## Summary

This EIP formalizes a JavaScript Ethereum Provider API for consistency across clients and applications.

The Provider is intended to be available as `globalThis.ethereum` (i.e. `window.ethereum` in browsers), so that JavaScript dapps can be written once and function in perpetuity.

The Provider's interface is designed to be minimal, preferring for features to be introduced in the API layer (e.g. see [`eth_requestAccounts`](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1102)), and agnostic of transport and RPC protocols.

The events `connect`, `close`, `chainChanged`, and `accountsChanged` are provided as a convenience to help enable reactive dapp UIs.

## API

### request

Makes an Ethereum RPC method call.

```typescript
type RequestParams = Array<any> | { [key: string]: any };

ethereum.request(method: string, params?: RequestParams): Promise<unknown>;
```

> The Promise resolves the method's result or rejects with an `Error`. For example:

Reviewer: I don't believe the word "resolves" is being used correctly here—a promise should resolve _with_ or _to_ something, similar to how it "rejects _with_ an `Error`"

```javascript
ethereum

>   .request("eth_accounts")

Reviewer: This seems to be the only place where double-quotes are used:

```suggestion
  .request('eth_accounts')
```

```typescript
{
  message: string,
  code: number,
  data?: any
}
```

See the [RPC Errors](#rpc-errors) section for more details.

#### RPC Protocols

Multiple RPC protocols may be available.

[EIP 1474](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1474) specifies the Ethereum JSON-RPC API.

[EIP 1767](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1767) specifies the Ethereum GraphQL schema.

### sendAsync (DEPRECATED)

Submits a JSON-RPC request to the Provider.
As [`ethereum.request`](#request), but with JSON-RPC objects and a callback.

```typescript
ethereum.sendAsync(request: Object, callback: Function): Object;
```

The interfaces of request and response objects are not specified here.
Historically, they have followed the [Ethereum JSON-RPC specification](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-1474.md).

### send (DEPRECATED)

Due to conflicting implementations and specifications, this method is unreliable and should not be used.

```typescript
ethereum.send(...args: Array<any>): unknown;
```

### Events

Events follow the [Node.js `EventEmitter`](https://nodejs.org/api/events.html) API.

#### notification

The Provider emits `notification` upon receipt of a notification.

> Notifications may include JSON-RPC notifications, GraphQL subscriptions, or any other event that the Provider decides to treat as a notification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notifications may include JSON-RPC notifications, GraphQL subscriptions, and/or any other event that the Provider decides to treat as a notification.
```

```typescript
interface ProviderNotification {
  type: string;
  data: unknown;
}

ethereum.on('notification', listener: (notification: ProviderNotification) => void): ethereum;
```

##### Subscriptions

Some clients like [Geth](https://geth.ethereum.org/docs/rpc/pubsub) and [Parity](https://wiki.parity.io/JSONRPC-eth_pubsub-module) support Publish-Subscribe (_Pub-Sub_) using JSON-RPC notifications. This lets you subscribe and wait for events instead of polling for them.
See the [`eth_` subscription methods](https://geth.ethereum.org/docs/rpc/pubsub) and [`shh_` subscription methods](https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum/wiki/Whisper-v6-RPC-API#shh_subscribe) for details.

#### connect

> The Provider emits `connect` when it becomes connected. This includes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Provider emits `connect` when it becomes connected in the following cases:
```

- when the Provider first connects to a chain after being initialized
- when the Provider connects to a chain, after the `close` event was emitted

```typescript
interface ProviderConnectInfo {
  chainId: string;
  [key: string]: unknown;
}

ethereum.on('connect', listener: (connectInfo: ProviderConnectInfo) => void): ethereum;
```

The event emits an object with a hexadecimal string `chainId` per the `eth_chainId` Ethereum RPC method, and other properties as determined by the Provider.

#### close

> The Provider emits `close` when it becomes disconnected from all chains.

Reviewer: Is there a way to know when the provider becomes disconnected from _a particular_ chain?

Author: Yes, by knowing which chain you were connected to at the time `close` was emitted. This spec inherits the assumption of `net_version` and `eth_chainId` that a provider/client is only connected to a single chain at any one time.

Reviewer: The "all chains" wording here suggests that there could be multiple simultaneous connections, no?

```typescript
ethereum.on('close', listener: (code: number, reason: string) => void): ethereum;
```

This event emits with `code` and `reason`. The code follows the table of [`CloseEvent` status codes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CloseEvent#Status_codes).

#### chainChanged

The Provider emits `chainChanged` when connecting to a new chain.

```typescript
ethereum.on('chainChanged', listener: (chainId: string) => void): ethereum;
```

The event emits a hexadecimal string `chainId` per the `eth_chainId` Ethereum RPC method.

#### networkChanged (DEPRECATED)

The event `networkChanged` is deprecated in favor of `chainChanged`. For details, see [EIP 155: Simple replay attack protection](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-155) and [EIP 695: Create eth_chainId method for JSON-RPC](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-695).

#### accountsChanged

The Provider emits `accountsChanged` if the accounts returned from the Provider (`eth_accounts`) change.

```typescript
ethereum.on('accountsChanged', listener: (accounts: Array<string>) => void): ethereum;
```

> The event emits with `accounts`, an array of account addresses.

Reviewer: Should this specify whether or not the addresses are `0x`-prefixed and/or EIP-55 checksum-style strings?

Author: I clarified that it must match the return value of `eth_accounts`.

## Examples

```javascript
const ethereum = window.ethereum;

// A) Set Provider in web3.js
var web3 = new Web3(ethereum);
// web3.eth.getBlock('latest', true).then(...)

// B) Use Provider object directly
// Example 1: Log chainId
ethereum

>   .request('eth_chainId)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .request('eth_chainId')
```

Historically, they have followed the [Ethereum JSON-RPC specification](https://github.com/ethereum/EIPs/blob/master/EIPS/eip-1474.md).

### send (DEPRECATED)

Due to conflicting implementations and specifications, this method is unreliable and should not be used.

```typescript
ethereum.send(...args: Array<any>): unknown;
```

### Events

Events follow the [Node.js `EventEmitter`](https://nodejs.org/api/events.html) API.

#### notification

The Provider emits `notification` upon receipt of a JSON-RPC notification intended for the dapp.

```typescript
interface JsonRpcNotification {
  method: string,
  params: Array<unknown> | Object,
  jsonrpc?: '2.0'
}

ethereum.on('notification', listener: (notification: JsonRpcNotification) => void): ethereum;
```

Notifications include `eth_subscription` messages, if supported by the Provider. See [here](https://geth.ethereum.org/docs/rpc/pubsub) for details.

#### connect

The Provider emits `connect` when it becomes connected. This includes:

- when the Provider first connects to a chain after being initialized
- when the Provider connects to a chain, after the `close` event was emitted

```typescript

> ethereum.on('connect', listener: (chainId: number) => void): ethereum;

Reviewer 2: Should the callback listener always return a number? Might be better (read: more flexible) to return an object that has the `chainId` instead:

```typescript
interface Network {
  chainId: number
}

ethereum.on('connect', listener: (network: Network) => void): ethereum;
```

This way it's:

1. More extensible should we want to add more stuff;
2. People are immediately clear what the number is about.

Author: Great point, I'll add that.

Author: Added in 31f7471
